README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos"><img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/bencevans/node-sonos/0f2775ab/logo.svg" alt="node-sonos logo" width="200"></a>
  <br>
  <br/>
  node-sonos
  <br>
  <br>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>Control your Sonos devices with JavaScript (node.js)</b>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/bencevans/node-sonos">
    <img src="http://img.shields.io/travis/bencevans/node-sonos/master.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="Travis Build">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/sonos">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sonos.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="NPM Version">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/sonos">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/sonos.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="NPM Downloads">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/feross/standard">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="Standard Codestyle">
  </a>
</p>

**node-sonos** gives you the power to control all your Sonos devices from your own apps in JavaScript. Automatically discover your devices on the network and control the playback and queue with instant events announcing change.

## Features

* Device Discovery
* Queue Control
* Volume Control
* Spotify Support
* Radio
* Change Events

## Install

Published versions (recommended)

    $ npm install sonos

From the repo, living on the edge

    $ npm install git://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos.git

## Quick Start

### Discovering Devices

```js
const { DeviceDiscovery } = require('sonos')

// event on all found...
DeviceDiscovery((device) => {
  console.log('found device at ' + device.host)

  // mute every device...
  device.setMuted(true)
    .then(d => console.log(`${d.host} now muted`))
})

// find one device
DeviceDiscovery().once('DeviceAvailable', (device) => {
  console.log('found device at ' + device.host)

  // get all groups
  sonos = new Sonos(device.host)
  sonos.getAllGroups().then(groups => {
    groups.forEach(group => {
      console.log(group.Name);
    })
  })
})
```

### Discovering devices async

```node
const DeviceDiscovery = require('sonos').AsyncDeviceDiscovery
let discovery = new DeviceDiscovery()
discovery.discover().then((device, model) => {
    // Do stuff, see examples/devicediscovery.js
})
```

### Controlling Known Devices

```js
const { Sonos } = require('sonos')

const device = new Sonos('192.168.1.56');

device.play()
  .then(() => console.log('now playing'))

device.getVolume()
  .then((volume) => console.log(`current volume = ${volume}`))
```

## API

* DeviceDiscovery([options], [deviceAvailableListener])
* Class: DeviceDiscovery([options])
  * Event: 'DeviceAvailable'
  * destroy()
* Class: 'AsyncDeviceDiscovery'
  * discover([options])
  * discoverMultiple([options])
* Class: Sonos(host, [port])
  * currentTrack()
  * deviceDescription()
  * flush()
  * getCurrentState()
  * getLEDState()
  * getMusicLibrary(search, options)
  * getMuted()
  * ~~getTopology()~~ Doesn't work if you upgraded to Sonos v9.1. Check-out getAllGroups() for some replacement.
  * getVolume()
  * getZoneAttrs()
  * getZoneInfo()
  * getQueue()
  * next()
  * parseDIDL(didl)
  * pause()
  * play(uri)
  * togglePlayback()
  * previous()
  * queue(uri, positionInQueue)
  * queueNext(uri)
  * request(endpoint, action, body, responseTag)
  * seek(seconds)
  * setLEDState(desiredState)
  * setMuted(muted)
  * setName(name)
  * getPlayMode()
  * setPlayMode(mode)
  * setVolume(volume)
  * stop()
  * setSpotifyRegion(region)
  * alarmClockService()
    * ListAlarms()
    * PatchAlarm(id,options)
    * SetAlarm(id,enabled)
  * joinGroup(otherDeviceName)
  * leaveGroup()
  * getAllGroups()
  * startListening(options)
  * stopListening()
  * Event: 'CurrentTrack'
  * Event: 'NextTrack'
  * Event: 'PlayState' and 'PlaybackStopped'
  * Event: 'AVTransport'
  * Event: 'Volume'
  * Event: 'Muted'
  * Event: 'RenderingControl'

## Documentation

We tried to add jsdoc info to all functions, and generate documentation from it. [/docs](./docs/)

## Examples

Additional examples can be found in the [/examples](./examples) directory within the repository.

## In The Wild

node-sonos in use across the interwebs. Missing yours? [Add it](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/edit/master/README.md) and send us a pull request!

### Apps

* **[AirSonos](https://github.com/stephen/airsonos)** - Apple AirPlay (iOS, OS X) support to all Sonos devices on a network.
* **[sonos-cli](https://github.com/bencevans/sonos-cli)** - Command Line Interface for Sonos
* **[sonos2mqtt](https://github.com/svrooij/sonos2mqtt)** - Bridge between Sonos and an MQTT server
* **[homebridge-zp](https://github.com/ebaauw/homebridge-zp)** - Homebridge plugin for Sonos ZonePlayer
* **[ZenMusic](https://github.com/htilly/zenmusic)** - Control Sonos thru #Slack!
* **[gladys-sonos](https://github.com/GladysProject/gladys-sonos)** - Control Sonos with [Gladys](https://github.com/GladysProject/Gladys) a Raspberry Pi Home Assistant
* **[sonos-web](https://github.com/Villarrealized/sonos-web)** - Sonos controller for your web browser

### Writeups

* **[How we gave our studio WWE-style entrances using iBeacons and Sonos](https://hackernoon.com/how-we-gave-our-studio-wwe-style-entrances-using-ibeacons-and-sonos-92dd2f54983)** - A technical run-down of using futuristic technology for sheer entertainment value

## Maintainers

* Ben Evans (@bencevans)
* Stephen Wan (@stephen)
* Marshall T. Rose (@mrose17)
* Stephan van Rooij (@svrooij)

And a big thanks to all you other [contributors](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/graphs/contributors)! Pull-requests are beautiful things.

## Issues

If you got discovered an issue with this library, please check the [issue-tracker](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues). And [create](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues/new) an issue if your problem isn't discovered by someone else. If you want to contribute something check out these ['help-wanted' issues](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/labels/help-wanted).

## Questions

Do you have a question about this library, we are glad to help you [Ask Question](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues/new?title=Question%3A%20%3CYour%20text%3E&body=%23%20Question%0A&labels=question&assignee=svrooij). You can see all questions [here](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=label%3Aquestion+)

### Unsupported sonos features

There is a great other library to control Sonos with Python, they also have a great list of all possible soap actions [here](https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/wiki/Sonos-UPnP-Services-and-Functions). So if you have anything that you cannot do with node-sonos but that you can with the official app. You could have a look in the above list, or use [wireshark](https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/wiki/Use-Wireshark-for-protocol-research) to investigate the protocol.

### NPM publish

We try to react to all pull-requests, but if you think we don't respond in time, please don't create a 'sonos-by-xyz' or a 'node-sonos-by-xyz' package on NPM. This might lead to people installing the wrong version.

If you want to publish your own version, please do it as a [user-scoped](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/scoped-packages) eg. `@svrooij/sonos` package.

1. Change the top of the readme to state your specific changes.
2. Change the `name` of the project to `@npm_username/sonos`
3. Publish it to npm `npm publish --access=public`

## Node Sonos v0.x (non async)

At 30 jan 2018 we released an **promisified** version of **node-sonos**. The old version can be found in the [v0.x branch](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/tree/v0.x). It won't get any new features, but it **might** get security updates.

## Licence

MIT © [Ben Evans](https://bencevans.io)

Commit message:

docs: Added development section to readme

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos"><img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/bencevans/node-sonos/0f2775ab/logo.svg" alt="node-sonos logo" width="200"></a>
  <br>
  <br/>
  node-sonos
  <br>
  <br>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>Control your Sonos devices with JavaScript (node.js)</b>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/bencevans/node-sonos">
    <img src="http://img.shields.io/travis/bencevans/node-sonos/master.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="Travis Build">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/sonos">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sonos.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="NPM Version">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/sonos">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/sonos.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="NPM Downloads">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/feross/standard">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square"
         alt="Standard Codestyle">
  </a>
</p>

**node-sonos** gives you the power to control all your Sonos devices from your own apps in JavaScript. Automatically discover your devices on the network and control the playback and queue with instant events announcing change.

## Features

* Device Discovery
* Queue Control
* Volume Control
* Spotify Support
* Radio
* Change Events

## Install

Published versions (recommended)

    $ npm install sonos

From the repo, living on the edge

    $ npm install git://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos.git

## Quick Start

### Discovering Devices

```js
const { DeviceDiscovery } = require('sonos')

// event on all found...
DeviceDiscovery((device) => {
  console.log('found device at ' + device.host)

  // mute every device...
  device.setMuted(true)
    .then(d => console.log(`${d.host} now muted`))
})

// find one device
DeviceDiscovery().once('DeviceAvailable', (device) => {
  console.log('found device at ' + device.host)

  // get all groups
  sonos = new Sonos(device.host)
  sonos.getAllGroups().then(groups => {
    groups.forEach(group => {
      console.log(group.Name);
    })
  })
})
```

### Discovering devices async

```node
const DeviceDiscovery = require('sonos').AsyncDeviceDiscovery
let discovery = new DeviceDiscovery()
discovery.discover().then((device, model) => {
    // Do stuff, see examples/devicediscovery.js
})
```

### Controlling Known Devices

```js
const { Sonos } = require('sonos')

const device = new Sonos('192.168.1.56');

device.play()
  .then(() => console.log('now playing'))

device.getVolume()
  .then((volume) => console.log(`current volume = ${volume}`))
```

## API

* DeviceDiscovery([options], [deviceAvailableListener])
* Class: DeviceDiscovery([options])
  * Event: 'DeviceAvailable'
  * destroy()
* Class: 'AsyncDeviceDiscovery'
  * discover([options])
  * discoverMultiple([options])
* Class: Sonos(host, [port])
  * currentTrack()
  * deviceDescription()
  * flush()
  * getCurrentState()
  * getLEDState()
  * getMusicLibrary(search, options)
  * getMuted()
  * ~~getTopology()~~ Doesn't work if you upgraded to Sonos v9.1. Check-out getAllGroups() for some replacement.
  * getVolume()
  * getZoneAttrs()
  * getZoneInfo()
  * getQueue()
  * next()
  * parseDIDL(didl)
  * pause()
  * play(uri)
  * togglePlayback()
  * previous()
  * queue(uri, positionInQueue)
  * queueNext(uri)
  * request(endpoint, action, body, responseTag)
  * seek(seconds)
  * setLEDState(desiredState)
  * setMuted(muted)
  * setName(name)
  * getPlayMode()
  * setPlayMode(mode)
  * setVolume(volume)
  * stop()
  * setSpotifyRegion(region)
  * alarmClockService()
    * ListAlarms()
    * PatchAlarm(id,options)
    * SetAlarm(id,enabled)
  * joinGroup(otherDeviceName)
  * leaveGroup()
  * getAllGroups()
  * startListening(options)
  * stopListening()
  * Event: 'CurrentTrack'
  * Event: 'NextTrack'
  * Event: 'PlayState' and 'PlaybackStopped'
  * Event: 'AVTransport'
  * Event: 'Volume'
  * Event: 'Muted'
  * Event: 'RenderingControl'

## Documentation

We tried to add jsdoc info to all functions, and generate documentation from it. [/docs](./docs/)

## Examples

Additional examples can be found in the [/examples](./examples) directory within the repository.

## In The Wild

node-sonos in use across the interwebs. Missing yours? [Add it](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/edit/master/README.md) and send us a pull request!

### Apps

* **[AirSonos](https://github.com/stephen/airsonos)** - Apple AirPlay (iOS, OS X) support to all Sonos devices on a network.
* **[sonos-cli](https://github.com/bencevans/sonos-cli)** - Command Line Interface for Sonos
* **[sonos2mqtt](https://github.com/svrooij/sonos2mqtt)** - Bridge between Sonos and an MQTT server
* **[homebridge-zp](https://github.com/ebaauw/homebridge-zp)** - Homebridge plugin for Sonos ZonePlayer
* **[ZenMusic](https://github.com/htilly/zenmusic)** - Control Sonos thru #Slack!
* **[gladys-sonos](https://github.com/GladysProject/gladys-sonos)** - Control Sonos with [Gladys](https://github.com/GladysProject/Gladys) a Raspberry Pi Home Assistant
* **[sonos-web](https://github.com/Villarrealized/sonos-web)** - Sonos controller for your web browser

### Writeups

* **[How we gave our studio WWE-style entrances using iBeacons and Sonos](https://hackernoon.com/how-we-gave-our-studio-wwe-style-entrances-using-ibeacons-and-sonos-92dd2f54983)** - A technical run-down of using futuristic technology for sheer entertainment value

## Maintainers

* Ben Evans (@bencevans)
* Stephen Wan (@stephen)
* Marshall T. Rose (@mrose17)
* Stephan van Rooij (@svrooij)

And a big thanks to all you other [contributors](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/graphs/contributors)! Pull-requests are beautiful things.

## Issues

If you got discovered an issue with this library, please check the [issue-tracker](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues). And [create](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues/new) an issue if your problem isn't discovered by someone else. If you want to contribute something check out these ['help-wanted' issues](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/labels/help-wanted).

## Questions

Do you have a question about this library, we are glad to help you [Ask Question](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues/new?title=Question%3A%20%3CYour%20text%3E&body=%23%20Question%0A&labels=question&assignee=svrooij). You can see all questions [here](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=label%3Aquestion+)

### Unsupported sonos features

There is a great other library to control Sonos with Python, they also have a great list of all possible soap actions [here](https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/wiki/Sonos-UPnP-Services-and-Functions). So if you have anything that you cannot do with node-sonos but that you can with the official app. You could have a look in the above list, or use [wireshark](https://github.com/SoCo/SoCo/wiki/Use-Wireshark-for-protocol-research) to investigate the protocol.

### NPM publish

We try to react to all pull-requests, but if you think we don't respond in time, please don't create a 'sonos-by-xyz' or a 'node-sonos-by-xyz' package on NPM. This might lead to people installing the wrong version.

If you want to publish your own version, please do it as a [user-scoped](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/scoped-packages) eg. `@svrooij/sonos` package.

1. Change the top of the readme to state your specific changes.
2. Change the `name` of the project to `@npm_username/sonos`
3. Publish it to npm `npm publish --access=public`

## Development

If you want to make this library better, you can follow these steps.

1. Create a [fork](https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos)
2. Make changes
3. (optional) Create tests for the feature or the bug, see [sonos.test.js](./test/sonos.test.js).
4. Run `SONOS_HOST=192.168.x.x npm run test` to test your code (against an actual sonos device, change the ip)
5. Check-in your code in a single commit.
   Make sure your commit starts with `fix:` for a bugfix or `feat:` for a new feature followed by a short description. You can also follow with an empty line followed by a more details description.
6. Send a pull-request
7. Hold-on, we will be checking them.

If you already had a fork, make sure it is updatet with the latest master so things don't get complicated when we want to merge the PR.

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/bencevans/node-sonos.git
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git rebase upstream/master
git push origin
```

## Licence

MIT © [Ben Evans](https://bencevans.io)
